Now, we've done a lot of really
interesting Vue 3 stuff, and honestly,
some of these features we just did
are pretty deep as far as the Vue 3
techniques go.
And so, what I implore you to understand
is that the reason I brought these into
place, because they help to solve some
pretty specific problems that we had.
It's really easy,
especially as developers,
to always wanna play with the shiniest and
the edgiest technique.
But remember that simpler and
something that people can comprehend
always trumps using the the most
latest and greatest thing.
And so, that's why I wanted to give
you this solution where a lot of you
are probably thinking like,
well, if I had shared state,
that might have been a little bit easier,
and that is probably true.
But there are cases where when
you have a base component,
you really just want it to communicate.
Because, imagine, a lot of us have
base input, we have base form fields,
you wanna be able to watch things.
So, on a base form, you might have
a first name field, a last name field,
an email field.
Do you wanna manually tie
that to some global store?
It might make more sense to be like,
here's my username form, and then for
this particular page, I wanna watch the
first name, the last name, the username.
And you should be able to just do that
without having to set up an entire
store to share a state between, right?
And so, again, different types of
modularity for different problems,
different types, sizes of state sharing.
So just something to consider
as an option going forward.
With all that said and
done, though, don't worry,
I did say the components
are special in Nuxt, didn't I?
And so, right now everything
we've done is Vue 3, and so
what exactly do I mean by that?
This entire time I've had
you import components, and
in fact most of you are probably used
to importing components whenever you're
trying to define components
that you're going to use.
So the most common of this, again,
just for sake of definition,
is actually let me not do this here.
And actually fun tip, you can actually
have two script blocks inside of a single
file component, one that's script set up,
and one that's a normal script block.
Because sometimes you need
an actual component to export.
Anyways, just know that it's possible.
So this is actually not invalid syntax,
but.
So, normally we register components.
That's what we're used to,
especially with Options API.
And so what I showed you earlier, though,
is that you don't need
to register components.
You don't need to register them manually
inside of script setup because Vue knows
that if you're importing this component,
we know you're gonna use it.
So you don't have to define it a second
time as something you have to actually
register.
Well, Nuxt takes that one step further and
says, honestly,
you know it's a component,
you know where it probably lives.
So, by default,
you actually don't ever need to
import any components on Nuxt at all.
To be clear, though, this does not mean
that all of your components are bundled in
every single page and every single build.
This is a DX, developer experience,
ergonomic thing, where they found that
most people overall when using
components could basically traceback,
especially with things
like go to definition.
So, for BaseDisplay, for example, if I
go to right click > Go to Ddefinition,
you'll see that theoretically,
it'll actually tell me where
it is if I really didn't know.
And so, if that's the case, it was like,
we know that our import statements at
the top get really big anyway,
so why be redundant with that?
And so that's one thing that's
particularly special about that.
Now again, it's a hotly debated topic cuz
some people like being very explicit.
And the reason I wanted to show you,
cuz it's so important, is that,
you're not forced to use their
auto import functionality.
The other special thing that you probably
should know about when it comes to Nuxt
components is they did apply convention
where if you create a global folder.
And so
let's say we drop BaseDisplay into global,
this is something that will
be built on everything now.
Cuz it assume, you told it,
it's a global component.
And so, again, this is a very
different paradigm from auto import.
Auto import, an ergonomic thing,
if you throw something in global,
expect it appear to in the payload
on everything that's loaded.
And so, this is not necessary a bad thing,
the immediate instinct might be like,
well, I should never do that.
And we were talking a little bit about
this at break, but anytime you hear
in tech like a never or some sort of
absolute, it's probably worth questioning.
Not to say that you shouldn't
avoid it most of the time, but
there are most likely exceptions and
problems where the solution
actually fits really, really well.
And so, an example of this is if you have,
let's say, a base button component.
If you know 99% of your site
uses this base button component,
then it probably makes sense to
just go ahead and have that loaded.
And then that way it doesn't
have to be reloaded again,
then the bundler can do
performance optimizations.
But otherwise, for most things, it's true,
you probably will avoid this global
folder, but just know that those
are the two paradigms that Nuxt provides
you when you're working with components.
Does anyone have any questions about
the components stuff that we've gone over?
>> I'm assuming in Nuxt you should still
import ref, computed, reactive, etc.
Those are not implicitly-
>> So, I guess, since you're asking that,
I will answer that question.
So the stuff up here actually defineProps,
ref, computed.
Let's just say the Nassim is very big
fan of not having to import stuff
that you probably will eventually
just automatically know and use.
And so, yes,
some of these more popular composable,
which I'll be explaining
little bit later on, but
the bottom line is a lot of stuff gets
abstracted away at the end of it.
Should you choose to opt into it?
The reason, especially when I teach
like to define the import is so
people can see where it comes from.
And again, some people like that
documentation in their code and
there's actually nothing wrong with that,
I actually see the benefits of that.
But for those who are really working
quickly, want to see no more concise code,
that's cool.
Auto import is there for you.
One more thing about
components with naming.
So, I know that it's very popular
on project conventions to group
components by folders.
And, in my personal opinion,
you should try to avoid that
whenever humanly possible.
Because what happens a lot of times
when you start letting developers use
folders to organize their components is
they kinda start getting a little bit lazy
about the naming, and
then it starts getting heavily nested.
And when you have that happen across
a team that's spread across the world,
working in different time zones,
solving tickets in silo,
you will find yourself in a world of hurt.
When you have like 50
different button components,
when 40 of them probably
do roughly the same thing.
And so, what I try to recommend
actually is try to keep your component
folder structure as flat
as humanly possible.
Don't get me wrong, there will come
a point where you might be like, okay,
it really does make sense to
group all this stuff in a folder.
But the nice thing about having everything
stay in one file structure is that
whenever someone tries to
create a duplicate component,
they'll immediately get blocked,
because you can't name the same file
the same thing in the same folder.
And more importantly,
some people are like,
well that makes scrolling really hard.
But that's what autocomplete's for, like
Command+ P, find the component you want.
So, there's also some other advantages,
too,
that I talk about in my
production grade Vue course.
But another thing that I also like
to do is if you have unit tests for
your components, I actually think it makes
a lot of sense to put them right next
inside of the component.
So if it is like jest.js, what this does
is it actually makes it visually very
obvious when your tests
are missing from components.
Whereas when they're split apart
from a different directory,
well, then it's always a kind
of game of cat and mouse.
But here, people could easily see, yeah,
BaseDisplay has jest, nothing else has it.
There's something very nice about having
information surface in an organic way.
So that's a little tidbit to
hopefully help you along the way.
The one folder you'll probably see me
have, especially in the Vue Eenterprise
boilerplate, which will definitely
be updated with Vue 3 soon,
is that usually there is a base directory.
Because the base directory
contains all your base components,
and those are sometimes you do like, Chris
Fritz, the President used to maintain it.
He would have a script to auto import all
the base components as a global component,
because they were just used so frequently.
And so, that's a good reason why you
might wanna group something together,
cuz you might be scripting something to
wrap it all together and do something.
That's a great example
of why that might work.
So, that's a tidbit on that, and
with that,
that is the end of the components section.